## 19.2

The more frequently checkpoints appears, the slower system perfromces.

The more frequently checkpoints appears, the faster to recover from a system crush.

Checkpoints have no effect on recovery from a disk failure.

## 19.10

Interactive transactions are more difficult to recover from than batch transactions because some actions may be irrevocable.

Output operations should ideally be done atomically. If output operations cannot be done atomically, a physical log of output operations, such as a disk log of events, or even a video log of what happened in the physical world can be maintained to allow perform recovery to be performed manually later.

## 19.21

Redo T2 to recover A from 400 to 500.

Undo T1 to recover C from 600 to 700.

## 19.23

**redo phase**

1. \<T0,B,2050>
2. <T0,C,600>
3. <T1,C,400>
4. <T0,C,500>

**undo list**

T0,T1 because \<T0 start> \<T1 start> without commit and abort of them

**undo phase**

1. \<T0,C,400>
2. <T1,C,600>
3. < T1, O2, operation-abort > 
4. <T1,abort>
5. <T0,C,700>
6. < T0, O1, operation-abort >
7. < T0, B, 2000 >
8. < T0, abort >

## 19.25

**a.** 

If at the beginning of the analysis pass, a page is not in the checkpoint dirty page table means it has been flushed in the disk before the checkpoint . But after the checkpoint , it may be updated and appear in dirty page table at the end of analysis pass . If the page has not appeared in the dirty page table ,we don't need to apply any redo records to it . But if it appears , we should apply redo records to it.

**b.**

RecLSN is an LSN such that log records before this LSN have already been applied to the page version on disk in dirty page table . In redo pass , if we encounter a update log record with a LSN less than the RecLSN , the record will be skipped . And the redo pass will start at RedoLSN that is the earliest RecLSN in the checkpoint dirty page table because no log records before should be redone.
