## 17.6

It is a conflict serializable schedule because it's acylclic.

## 17.7

A cascadeless schedule is one in which, a roll-back in a specifit transaction will not lead a cascading roll-back in other transactions. It's desirable because it's much easier to recover from an abortion if the schedule is cascadeless. However, it slows the schedule over all to achive cascadelessness. So if abortion happens rarely, it'd better to allow noncascadeless schedule.

## 18.1

Suppose there exists 2 transactions, T0 and T1, which obey 2PL protocol. Their conflict instructions involve data A1, A2, A3...An. For each Ai, either T0 tries to write and T1 tries to read/write or T1 tries to write and T0 tries to read/write. According to 2PL, arc in precidence graph of conflict operating Ai must not be cyclic because X-lock cannot coexist with any other lock. 

## 18.7

a)

Serializability can be shown by observing that if two transactions have an I mode lock on the same item, the increment operations can be swapped just like read operations. However, any pair of conflicting operations must be serialized in the order of the lock points of the corresponding transactions.

b)

The increment lock mode being compatible with itself allows multiple incrementing transactions to take the lock simultaneously, thereby improving the concurrency of the protocol. In the absence of this mode, an exclusive mode will have to be taken on a data item by each transaction that wants to increment the value of this data item. An exclusive lock being incompatible with itself adds to the lock waiting time and obstructs the overall progress of the concurrent schedule.

## 18.18

1. It‘s simple to implement for coder.
2. It provides low roll-back cost compared to 2PL.
3. Its performance is still acceptable.

## 18.32

Assume that there're two concurrent transactions, one in which consists of 2 count(\*) of a relation and the other inserts a new tuple in the same relation. Whenever execute insertion, before 2 count(\*), after 2 count(\*) or between them, the schedules of them all obey 2PL but may lead to different result. 

