## 12.1

#### a)

The former one. Because you've no idea which part of DB will be required. SSD as storage guarantees the performance but SSD.

#### b)

The later one. You don't exactly know which parts of DB are accessed frequently while you can't load the whole relation into SSD. Cache can save the frequently used parts of this relation automatically.

## 13.5

Hash table. Hash function can help you locate a block in a constant time. It performs much better than other structure when the buffer size is large and the access is random.

## 13.9

#### a)

What ever the offset is, the length should be zero.

#### b)

No offset and length field exists if an attribute is null.

## 13.11

#### a)

Advantage:

- It is safer. The smaller a singe file is, the less damage database takes when blocks or bytes malfunction.
- It requires less memory when you need not all relations in the database. You can only load the part you need into memory and leave the others in storage.

Disadvantage:

- It's harder to transfer from one machine to another.
- It runs slower especially on HDD. Since files may not be sequencially stored, it takes additional access time to read files seperately.

#### b)

Advantage:

- it runs faster especially on HDD because data is always stored together in a same place.
- It's easier to transfer between disks and computers. You just need to copy and paste one file.

Disadvantage:

- It's not save. A single malfunctioned block could ruin the whole database.
- You have to load all the parts of database into memory at a time even you only need a very small part of it. It's a huge waste when relations are large.